CNV-70244: Update CPU model docs (#111302)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/virt-about-named-cpu-models.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/managing_vms/cpu_models/virt-schedule-vms.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="virt-about-named-cpu-models_{context}"]
= Named CPU models

[role="_abstract"]
Named CPU models allow you to explicitly select a CPU type for a virtual machine (VM). You can configure a named CPU model at the VM level or set a cluster-wide default using the `HyperConverged` custom resource (CR).

A node supports a named CPU model only if it includes all required CPU features defined by libvirt for that model. Nodes that support a specific CPU model are labeled with `cpu-model.node.kubevirt.io/<cpuModel>`. {VirtProductName} uses these labels to schedule VMs only to compatible nodes. When you configure a named CPU model, the VM receives a node selector that ensures it only runs on nodes labeled with that specific CPU model.

[id="virt-cpu-model-heterogeneous-clusters_{context}"]
== Heterogeneous clusters

In a heterogeneous cluster, nodes have different CPU generations or feature sets.

> When a virtual machine instance (VMI) is first scheduled on a node, it inherits the CPU features of that node. If the initial node has unique or newer CPU features, other nodes may not support them. This can prevent live migration to nodes that lack these features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a virtual machine instance (VMI) is first scheduled on a node, it inherits the host model required CPU features of that node. If the initial node has unique or newer host model required CPU features, other nodes may not support them. This can prevent live migration to nodes that lack these features.
```

> When a virtual machine instance (VMI) is first scheduled on a node, it inherits the host model required CPU features of that node. If the initial node has unique or newer host model required CPU features, other nodes may not support them. This can prevent live migration to nodes that lack these features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A virtual machine instance (VMI) inherits the host model CPU feature of the node where it is first scheduled. If the initial node has CPU features unsupported by other nodes, it can prevent the VM from being migrated to them.
```

Using a common named CPU model (for example, `EPYC-IBPB` or `Haswell`) is recommended for  CPU models in heterogeneous clusters, and provides the following benefits:

* Ensures that all nodes selected for migration support the required CPU features.
* Maximizes VM migratability across nodes with different CPU types.
* Prevents scheduling VMs on nodes that cannot support live migration targets.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> In heterogeneous clusters, using `host-model` can limit live migration options if the initial scheduling node has CPU features that are not available on all other nodes in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In heterogeneous clusters, using `host-model` can limit live migration options if the initial scheduling node has host model required CPU features that are not available on all other nodes in the cluster.
```
